a. Relief: If the Endurance Value of the starting
pitcher is GREATER than the numbered
result in the Pitcher Endurance column, then
the pitcher does not need relief help and
nothing further is done. However, if the
numbered result is EQUAL to or GREATER
than the pitcher's Endurance Value, then the
pitcher needs re1ief help. In this event, look
at the number showing on the red die. This
numeral is the number of relief pitchers the
opposing player must choose from his pitching
staff (a relief pitcher is any pitcher
possessing a Relief Value; if there are not
enough relievers on the staff to satisfy this requirement,
then simply use every available
one). The OPPOSING player adds up the
Relief Values of the chosen pitchers with the
proviso that no sum may be greater than
( +2) or less than (-2). This sum is then
ADDED (or SUBTRACTED, as the case
may be) to the number shown on the white
die. Then, run calculation is perfonned normally.
Divide the team Batting Value by the
product obtained by multiplying the
pitcher's Start Value by the white die,
perhaps modified due to relief. EXAMPLE:
The visiting team has a Batting Value of 30
and the pitcher has a Start Value and Endurance
Value of 4. The dice are rolled and
come up White: 4; Red: 3; Green: 2. The sum
of the dice (9) is less than 10, 50 the
Relief/ Defense Chart is consulted. The result
in the Pitcher Endurance column states "4".
The pitcher's Endurance Value is not greater
than this number, so he needs relief help. The
red die is 3, which is the number of relievers
that must be chosen from the opposing
player's staff. The best three relievers on the
staff have Relief Values of (0), (-1), and (-2).
When added up, these values come to (-3),
but remember that no sum may be less than
(-2). So 2 is subtracted from the white die,
making it 2. 2 multiplied by 4 (the Start
Value) yields 8. 30 (the team Batting Value)
divided by 8 yields 3 and a fraction. Dropping
the fraction, 3 is the number of runs
scored by the visiting team in this game.